Hello everyone welcome back to the section 19 challenge.
One solution.
I mean the section 19 workspace and I mean the challenge underscore one underscore solution project.
I hope you found this this challenge challenging.
There was probably a couple of pieces that were kind of tricky.
One of them had to do with displaying the country right next to that city the first time around and
I'll talk about that in a second the role might have been trying to center that title so we'll go over
both of those here the structures again.
Here's a city my country and my tours.
I've got this simple function called Ruller which I'm just going to use one time at the very beginning
just so we can look at our alignment.
And then I've got my structure which has been initialized here exactly like I gave it to you.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to look at my data and I want to kind of look at the sizes
of the data and make sure that there's nothing like a city and it's got 30 or 40 characters in it.
That way I can gauge what kind of field widths I want.
So that's what I did and what I've done here is I've decided to go with a total with a 70.
And the reason I did that was just purely console based because some terminal windows and some DOS Windows
and some shell Windows which is where we're running these programs are 80 Macs.
So I didn't really want them going over the HD and then rapping over and really making it ugly.
So what I decided to do was keep the total width of the entire report to 70 characters.
OK so 70 is our goal here.
And then we've got four fields right.
We've got the name of the country the name of the city the population and the costs and obviously we
have a title appears centered somewhere and I'll talk about that title in just a second.
So the way I decided to do this was to create four field with 10 I'm going to make constants from all
of these guys that way I don't have to use my numbers everywhere and I just use these names.
And if I ever need to tweak anything I could just come here and tweak them and it should be good to
go.
So 70 is the total with my first field is a with a 20.
So let's said that this is my first one here that say that this is another 20 here.
And then my last two are 15 which are a little bit smaller.
This isn't to scale but you get the idea.
So this would be the country's name.
Right so this would say let's say Columbia would display here and then the city would be over here the
population and both these guys I'll just draw arrows here will be left justified in that field with
then I've got the population which is a number which will be right justified here.
And I've got the costs which would be some number with two decimal points on the end and that's want
to be right justified here as well.
OK I've got a header over here which is going to say country city population will be right justified
over here.
So it lines up and over here costs will be JEA right justify.
So that's sort of the structure that I've got in my mind that I can tweak this as I go.
OK so that's really pretty much.
Here in my field with that I've defined so again 20 20 15 15.
We had them up to 70.
So I know that I'm in the ballpark.
Let's deal with that title.
So how many racist's real quick.
And scroll down just a bit.
And what we want to do is we want to display the type of mail notice on line 71 down here.
I'm just playing the ruler.
That's just going to display that series of numbers so that we can line things up.
But let's talk about the title and what kind of algorithm we want.
Again we've got seventy four our field our total width of our report.
And suppose I wanted to display something well obviously the center here is 35 right.
That's pretty clear.
And suppose I wanted to display something that was 10 characters wide a string that's 10 characters
wide.
The idea would be that I want to display five of those characters on this side and five on this side
right.
That would center that string if the string was 20 characters wide.
I wanted to split 10 over here and I'd want to display 10 over here.
That way we know that that string is always centered.
So we've got to do the math that lets us do that.
And it's pretty straightforward if you think about this.
Notice here if the if the string is 20 large right we want 10 on this side 10 on that side and if 35
was the center that means we really want to start printing that guy at 25.
I call him 25.
And if the string was 10 characters big we want a printed at 35 minus the 5 which is 30 right here so
that's really what my algorithm is going to be.
Let me clear this because it's a little messy and I'll do it one more time with an actual example.
So here's the 70 we know we're at 35 and I want to display a string that's 40 characters wide.
OK so what do I do.
How do I figure this out.
Well I want to display 20 of them and 20 of them and I want to line those up right at 35 minus 20 gives
me 15.
And that's where I want to start displaying that string.
So how do we do this.
You take the total length which is 70.
You subtract from it the length of the string that you want which is 40.
That gives you a 30 and then you divide that by two.
Now give it to 15.
That gives you exactly where you need to start displaying the strengths what century.
OK let's do another example suppose the string is 20 big.
I need 70 minus 20 divided by two gives me 25.
Does that make sense.
Well let's see if it's 20 I want to do 10 on this side and 10 on this side 35 minus the 10 is 25.
Exactly right.
So my algorithm makes sense.
And it's really easy to implement.
Let me show you how to do it.
I'm going to scroll down just a little bit and we'll do the head right here.
So what I'm doing here online 72 is I'm determining what is the length of that tidal string.
Well where where's the title string.
It's Intourist dot title.
I just want the length of it whatever that length is I'm going to subtract it from the total with.
Divide it by 2.
That's where I want to start displaying towards that title but how do I do that.
Well it's really easy I can set it with two that that amount and just display an empty string remember
that the set with applies to the next item that's being put on the stream.
There it is.
I'm not putting anything it's just an empty string but it's still going on the stream.
OK.
So that should take care of centering that and then the rest is pretty easy in this context which is
what we're doing here is I'm setting my field with for the country to field one which is 20.
I'm justifying left and I'm displaying country.
So field with one which is 20 is going to be left justified and right there is what I'm putting on the
stream so country that string is going to be left justified then feel to is 20 again.
Then I've got 15 15 I'm doing the two left to right.
Just like I did before.
And then I've got a new line so that should display the title centered and my headers those four names
right where I want them and they say I need to do is I need to do a line of dashes right to separate
my my head from the content and I want 70 of those dashes.
I could just say see out a big string of 70 dashes right but if I ever change my total width and I've
got to change that as well.
So what I can do here is I can simply say set the field with to the total with that will be 70 Cetaphil
character to the dash.
And that's what I want to display which is just an empty string but it doesn't really matter because
it's going to fill up everything with the dashes and then give me a new line of 10.
That's it.
Let's run this and we'll see where we're at
and there we go.
You can see tour ticket prices from Miami that's centered.
I've got my country left justified in 20 my city left justified and 20 my population and my price both
right justified here and 15.
And if you count them you can actually see that that's all lining up just right.
And there's my Dasch mind of 70 in this case 70 if I change total with to 80 it'll do 80 if I change
it to 40 it'll be 40.
That's the nice part about using those concepts.
OK.
So that's it.
Now we need to get into the body of the report before we do that.
Let's do a couple of things here.
This is important right here.
I mean go back to where I was.
Here we go.
I want to uncomment these two lines out.
Let's talk about these for a second.
I want to set my Phil back to blank.
Right.
Remember I changed the feel right here and that's persistent.
So I don't want to keep it that way or those I'm going to get dashes all over the place.
So I want to send it back to a blank character and I want to set the precision to two and fixed.
And that's basically for this guy right here for the price I want to be able to make sure that I've
got two digits to the right side of the decimal I'll need to do that one time and then we're good to
go.
And now comes the logic freshy displaying the data.
And this is it.
This is all there really is to it.
There's a couple of tricky parts here and I'll talk about that in a minute but let's just talk about
the outer loop first.
Here's the outer loop.
My collection is tures dot countries right.
So each time I go through there I'm going to grab a country structure and each one of those country
structures has city structures within it.
Right.
So that's the idea vector of cities.
So in this case for each country in tures country I want to actually do this inner loop and this inner
loop we could have done this a lot more complicated a couple of different ways to do this.
I chose to do it a simple way with just one standard out statement right here once out statement that
kind of does everything but the only thing that's different here is and let me make a little room down
here so I can show you what I'm talking about in the report.
We could have done something like this we could have said Columbia and then the cities down here Bogota
the population the amount and Ghali in the population and the amount I didn't want to do it that way.
I wanted to do it where this guy is down here right there right next to the first cities which looks
more like a report here it kind of just leaves all this empty space here which I didn't like but in
order to achieve this you've got to do a little bit of extra logic to do it.
So let me show you what I did.
For each one of those cities remember outer loop is the country inner loop is we're looping through
the cities vector in the country.
So each time we loop in here we're going to get a city.
So what we're going to do is the only time that we want to display the mere fact that again the only
time that we want to display the city and the country is that first time right that very first city
is going to be different.
The second city.
I just want to display it like this.
I don't want to display Columbia again or I don't want to see this play Argentina again makes sense.
OK.
So what we're doing here is we're looping through the cities vector.
And I've got my wits set exactly like we did before.
Left left right right.
None of that changes.
The only difference here is this one line of code right here.
This is using the conditional operator.
Now if you remember the conditional operator it's an if else statement built right into an expression
which is kind of cool.
So here I am I've decided to use a for loop nunna not a arranged based for loop but a regular for loop
because I need to know when I get the first one the first one will be when I'm zero.
So notice what's happening here when I's equal to zero.
I am displaying the country's name.
That's what I want.
When is not equal to zero.
That means that I've already displayed the country and am not supplying cities now.
Then I just don't want to display anything on that line.
Makes sense.
So the first time through I'm displaying the country and then the city the population and the costs
the city population costs the next time around.
I will not be equal to zero.
Right so I'm just displaying a blank so I'm not displaying anything here but I am displaying these three
so it's just a nice little way to do this.
That way you don't have to write multiple out statements depending on all kinds of conditions.
So that's that first one the rest are really simple right.
Grab the city at II or the name of the city at I.
The population in the COS were just looping through that vector grabbing the fields that we want and
simple as that.
Now there are different ways to do this and will learn how to do this in when we talk about the standard
template library using iterators which is much nicer than using these loops but when we get there we
get there.
That's it.
Let me run this and will verify that it works.
And there you go.
And you can see right here this is exactly what you want and you can see Columbia's here.
Then I'm printing out that city right next to it and then on the second city I'm not displaying Columbia
again.
If you did it this way.
Great if you didn't do it this way you just wrote a blank line here and then you started with the cities
underneath.
That's fine too.
I just think that this report looks nicer this way.
All right so that's it.
You've got a whole bunch of stuff to look at here.
Hopefully your solution was close.
If your solution was better or quicker or more efficient or you used a different kind of looping construct
posted in the forums you'd have to post the whole program just post this.
Just post this piece here.
This loop right here because that's really the interesting part.
The rest of the data is all same for everybody.
OK so in the next video we'll start talking about files.